Let us see the working of nested for loop that is for loop inside our for loop.
I'll write first for loop for integer.
I assign one.
I'm starting from one and I is less than or equal to five.
I plus.
Plus.
Now you know well that this loop will repeat four or five times where I will start taking the value
from one and up to five.
It will continue.
When it becomes greater than five, it will stop.
What I'll do is I'll see out I.
And also after every I, I'll give some space.
Let us run and see what happens.
Displaying numbers from one through five instead of I, I will print.
Star and the space.
Let us see what I get.
I got five stars with spaces in between them.
Now here, I'll remove the code and I write one more follow up just like I.
I will use J assign from one and J is less than or equal to five j plus plus.
Now inside this loop I will say see out.
G and I'll give some space.
Let us see what happens.
See, I have loop inside a loop.
So this for loop is inside outer for loop.
Right.
So how many times it will repeat.
Now in there for loop will j start from 1 to 5 and outer for loop also 1 to 5.
So this inner for loop or this code will execute for 25 times five and to five times.
So this j values I will get 25 g values.
Let us run and see.
Yes.
1 to 5.
Then again, 1 to 5.
So I got five times 1 to 5.
They all are in a single line.
So what I do is.
This fall loop is displaying one line.
After this I will say C out and L so that it moves into the next line.
So in there for loop is for displaying one line and the outer for loop is for repeating those lines.
Let us check.
Yes in that follow up is displaying 1 to 5 first time.
Then again next in that follow up is repeating for one more time and one more time.
So it is totally repeating four or five times instead of just J.
I will display both I and J.
So I will try to include them inside a bracket.
So there's a bracket.
Then say I, then comma.
Then Jay, then after that closing bracket.
So I'm displaying both I and Jay with some space, and they're enclosed inside brackets.
Let us see how we get the result.
Yes.
So now you can see that these are high values.
First is high value and the second is g value.
So I value is one.
Then J is changing from 1 to 5 and this row.
Then again I value the two and the j is taking the values from 1 to 5 for I values as three j is taking
the values from 1 to 3, 4 to 5, and same way it is repeating up to five.
So I got five squared.
So it is just like a two dimensional array.
If I take a matrix, then this is how we get the indices for the elements.
One comma, one one comma to one comma, three one comma for one comma, five, then two comma, one
to comma two so on.
I try to change this from five.
I will just make it as three.
So it means I want just three rows.
Let us see what output I get.
C 1 to 5 G is taking values from 1 to 5, but is taking only three values.
That is one, two, three.
So that time I have taken square set of values, but now it is rectangular.
Rows are three and columns are five.
So if you check here, those are three and columns are five.
So it means I is four rows and J is four columns.
I will debug this and show you for this.
I will change this g also to three.
So I'll get just nine values three into three and let us run and see for that.
I'll put a breakpoint on first for loop, then I will start running it.
Yes.
I values zero.
Right.
It is not yet executed.
Then function seven.
That is f seven.
I value is one and the j value is still zero because this has not yet executed.
Then next.
Now it is on c out.
I'll complete this and say next.
So you can see that one comma one is displayed here, one comma one is displayed and the IMG values
are one one.
Now I will again press f seven so you can see that it is inside this inner for loop only that is using
j.
This is inside this loop only.
I'll be continuing with one more time.
Now J has became three.
Now it will become four.
So it will come out and take NL and it has gone on to outer loop again.
I Now this time if I continue next now you can see that the value is two.
Yes, J was four.
Now again it will start from one onwards.
Now you can see the value of J is one.
Yes.
Now it will display two comma one, two, comma, one and two comma two to comma three.
Again, it has gone out and I became three now.
So three, one, three, two, three, three.
That's it.
So this is how you can debug the program and check how the program is working.
So this is very easy for understanding the program code.
That's it.
In the next video, we will see how to draw a few patterns.
We will draw a few patterns using two for loops.
I use the same code and modify it for showing patterns.